---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Why I Chose MIS
date: 2022-01-16
labels:
  - MIS 
  - About Me 
---

I always thought that I would major in film once I got to college because I have always loved acting and making films. After graduating from high school, I attended university on the mainland in Thousand Oaks, California. They didn't have a Film major there, so I decided to major in Communications with an emphasis in Film. It turns out that I did not like my school and I decided not to go back after two years. Originally, I would have loved to stay in California and attend a different (and much bigger) university like UCLA or USC, but I think coming back home to UH was the best decision for me at the time. 

Since I decided not to go back in January 2020, I took a semester off because it was too late to apply to UH. Little did I know, that was around the time the pandemic hit and staying home 24/7 really forced me to think about what I actually wanted to do with my life. As much as I loved Communications, I always wondered about becoming a Business major, especially because my Dad set a great example and always inspired me with his work ethic and drive when it came to running his own businesses. Today, he owns an insurance company as well as two franchises.

I quickly realized that Communications did not feel fulfilling. I often got bored of the major and the things I was learning and I definitely wanted to be more challenged. Since I knew Business was another major that interested me, I decided to change majors from Communications to Business.

Entering UH as an Exploratory Business major, I already knew I wanted to major in Marketing, but I never planned on majoring in MIS. After taking my first semester of Business coursework in Fall 2020, I absolutely loved ICS 101. I found everything we learned in class to be very interesting and I had a lot of fun completing the projects we were given in the class as well. However, it wasn't until taking BUS 311 last semester that I seriously thought about becoming an MIS major because I also enjoyed that class. So I guess you could say I decided to become an MIS major on a whim. 

Although I am a bit nervous to take this class because I am not as knowledgeable about computers as others are, I know that this class will give me the various tools that I need to succeed in a career relating to MIS. 
