---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflecting on Assignment 3
date: 2022-05-13
labels:
  - MIS 
  - Assignment 3
---

<strong>Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)</strong><br>
I created a store that sells K-Pop albums for different K-Pop groups such as BTS, Blackpink, Itzy, and TXT. 

<strong>Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?</strong><br>
Yes. Whenever an alert pops up when the user adds items to their cart or enters invalid quantities, it takes the user to an undefined products page. Also, my registration and change password pages do not lead successfully to the invoice and I didn't include cookies so there is no personalization after the user logs in. 

<strong>Describe what you are most proud of about your system:</strong><br>
I am most proud of my shopping cart, especially my IR4 because it highlights, unhighlights, and is able to be added to the cart. I am also proud of being able to fix all of my problems from Assignment 2. 

<strong>Describe what you are least happy with your system:</strong><br>
I am least happy with the fact that I wasn't able to use cookies because I had a specific personalization I wanted to do once the user logged in. I am also unhappy that I wasn't able to get my images to display once the favorites were added to the cart. I tried multiple different things to get the image to display, but it kept showing up as a white square even after triple checking that I referenced everything properly. 

<strong>How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?</strong><br>
I actually think this assignment was a lot harder than assignment 2. This is probably due to the fact that although I understood the individual concepts and how they work, I didn't understand how everything was supposed to fit together as a whole. 

<strong>When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?</strong><br>
When I ran into a problem, I tried to rewrite my code in different ways. However, if I tried multiple times on my own and it still didn't work, I asked Professor Port. 

<strong>Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?</strong><br>
I think implementing the code examples worked well for me because I was able to use the code examples to get my navigation bar working.

<strong>Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?</strong><br>
Use of cookies

<strong>What did you learn from doing this assignment?</strong><br>
I learned that we didn't have to load the products_data.json file as a script source because we were using the loadJSON to do so.  

<strong>If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?</strong><br>
If I could go back in time, I would see Professor Port immediately as soon as I didn't understand something throughout the semester. Also, I would do more research on terms and how things worked because being unable to understand some of these concepts really came to bite me in this assignment.

<strong>Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging</strong><br>
For what I was able to get done, I spent about 50% thinking, 30% writing code, and 20% debugging.

<strong>Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)</strong><br>
I did not work with a partner for this assignment. 
