---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 UI Basics
date: 2022-01-27
labels:
  - WODs 
---

After reading through the instructions for Browser History 1, I thought it wouldn't be too complicated, especially because I was already familiar with basic HTML prior to taking this class. When I gave it a try, I found myself stuck on step 6 until the DNF time, so I watched the screencast and realized that I had no clue how to start because I didn't understand what the id attribute did. From there, I went back to the HTML reading in order to get a refresher on how this attribute was used and what it does. Reviewing definitely helped me because I tried again and I finished it within Av time of 15 minutes. Although I was satisfied with making it in Av time, I would've liked to try again a third time to get it in Rx time. However, it was midnight by the time I finished my second attempt and I didn't have the energy to stay up and do it again.

Browser History 2 was much shorter, but it was definitely a bit more complicated for me. I was able to get most of the steps done in about 13 minutes, but I got stuck in a few places and ended up spending a lot of time figuring out how to do it, which made me go over the DNF time on my first attempt. My biggest mistake was forgetting to add the link to the Google fonts. However, I also forgot other little details like how to make the logos inline with the text, and the margins rule, which is top, right, bottom, left, but I ended up entering it as top, bottom, left, right. At 20 minutes (which was the DNF time), I decided to stop and watch the screencast and I was able to do the WOD a second time within Rx time at 8 minutes. When I stopped my timer, I was shocked that I had did it so quickly because I was certain I would have to do it one more time to get under 10 minutes.

Browser History 3 was the most challenging for me. I had no idea where to start and spent most of my first attempt trying to figure out how to even make it into columns, so I resorted to watching the screencast. I am really good at memorizing things, so it was easy for me to remember everything in the video after one watch. After that, I decided to give it another try. This time, I actually completed the WOD, but it was a lot of code so it took me about 15 minutes. I wanted to try one more time to see if I could complete it in Rx time, and I did! I finished my third attempt within Rx time at 9 minutes.

I learned a lot from these WODs and I actually had a lot of fun doing them. At first, I was dreading it because I wasn't sure if I would know how to do anything, but I definitely surprised myself and retained a lot more information from the readings and labs than I thought. My advice for the WODs would be to start as early as possible because it takes a long time, especially since you will definitely have to do it multiple times to get your desired score. Also, I learned that I should thoroughly review before starting each WOD so I'm not wasting time trying to research or reread things on my first attempt. One tip I would give is that I never recorded my first attempt because I knew I wouldn't get under DNF the first time. I started recording when I was more confident that I would get under DNF time because it can get tedious to keep deleting the screen recording along with all your files in VSCode.
