---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Checkpoint for Assignment 3
date: 2022-05-04
labels:
  - MIS 
  - Assignment 3
---

<strong>Show what each page will look like. The pages do not have to be “functional” but the design should be clear.</strong><br>
Click <a href="https://youtu.be/Yki-4gMucVU">here</a> to access explanation of desired layout and functionality for my website. 

<strong>Describe your design for your site’s shopping cart. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart.</strong><br>
The shopping cart will be a separate page that the user will be able to view and edit. On each product page, I will have an add to cart button where a user can add their items to the cart at once. On the cart page, I would like to include a button for the user to be able to add quantities, remove quantities, or remove an item completely from the cart. I would also like my cart to overwrite quantities and products when new things are added. 

<strong>Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will be stored in the session, what data format will be used (NOT what data type, but the format like with the data format used for your registration data). Use code examples showing what data structures (such as arrays and their objects) you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will be used in a session.</strong><br>
When a user adds items to their cart, the product type of the items will be added to the session data as an object key. The value for each product type key will be the quantities for each product in an array format. For example, if a user adds products from multiple product types, this will be the format of item data in the session data:
cart data:  { BTS: [ 1, 0, 1 ], Itzy: [ 2, 1, 0 ] }

<strong>How will you avoid access to your application when the user has not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address?</strong><br>
When the purchase button is pressed, the server will check if there is a cookie. If there isn't a cookie, the user will be taken to the login page and create an acccount. If the user does have a cookie, it will directly take them to the invoice. A security concern with this is that if unencrypted, cookies can be accessed and modified and allow the user to pose as another user.

<strong>Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary)</strong><br>
Upon a successful login, I will include the username and email for the user in the invoice message. 

<strong>If you are working with partners, how will you split up the work in your team so that you are working in parallel as effectively as possible? That is, who is doing what and when?</strong><br>
I am not working with a partner.

<strong>How are you approaching Assignment 3 differently than Assignment 2?</strong><br>
I am trying to gradually work on it rather than doing it all at once and stressing myself out. 
